# SIM7100

This module interfaces with the SIM7100 module.

* [SIM7100](#SIM7100)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [SMS](#sms)
* [GPS](#gps)
* [Miscellaneous](#misc)
* [Examples](#examples)

<a id="SIM7100"></a>
## class SIM7100

* Source code:
* [Relevant Examples](#examples): [sim7100](examples/sim7100), [sim7100sms](examples/sim7100sms), [sim7100gps](examples/sim7100gps), [gpsmap](examples/gpsmap)

To use the SIM7100, import the module, create an object and start the device.

```js
import SIM7100 from "sim7100";

let sim7100 = new SIM7100();

sim7100.onReady = function() {
	// can perform sim7100 actions now
}

sim7100.start();
```

#### `onReady`

Set an `onReady` function to be notified when the SIM7100 has been started and is ready to accept commands.



<a id="configuration"></a>
### constructor(dictionary)

The **SIM7100** object interfaces with the SIM7100 module by means of the `Serial` object.

The `SIM7100` constructor takes its `Serial` configuration information from the **manifest.json** file. See the [Serial](../serial/SerialModule.md) module documentation.

```js
let sim7100 = new SIM7100({timeout: 5000});
```

The dictionary passed to the constructor can contain some additional configuration:

key | default | description
---|----|---
`timeout` | 1000 | number of ms to wait for initial SIM7100 response

### Stopping the SIM7100

You can stop the SIM7100 by calling its `stop` function. 

```js
sim7100.stop()
```

Set an `onStopped` callback function to be notified when it is complete.

#### `onStopped`

```js
sim7100.onStopped = function() {
	// do not call sim7100 functions after this point
}

sim7100.stop();
```

<a id="sms"></a>
### SMS

Send a text message, the SIM7100 must be started and ready.

```js
	sim7100.sendSMS(phone, message);
```

Set an `onSMSSendComplete` function prior to sending if you want to be notified when the message has been sent.

```js
	sim7100.onSMSSendComplete = function() {
		trace("SMS Message Sent!\n");
	}
	sim7100.sendSMS(phone, message);
```

<a id="gps"></a>
### GPS

To use GPS, the SIM7100 must be started and ready. You will then set up some callbacks and enable GPS. Your callback will be invoked with a **gps** object.

The callbacks are `onGPSEnabled`, `onGPSChanged` and `onGPSDisabled`.

#### `onGPSEnabled`

Set an `onGPSEnabled` function to be notified when it is ready for commands. The `device` parameter sent to the function is the SIM7100 object.

```js
	sim7100.onGPSEnabled = function(device) {
			device.getGPS();		// read GPS once.
	}
	
	sim7100.enableGPS();
```

#### `onGPSChanged`

To get a GPS reading, set an `onGPSChanged` function to receive the results and call `getGPS`. The `gps` parameter sent to the function an object with the GPS information described below.

```js
	sim7100.onGPSChanged = function(gps) {
		trace(`${gps.seq}) lat:${gps.lat} lon:${gps.lon}\n`);
	}
	
	sim7100.getGPS();
```

If you want to receive continuous GPS changes, call `getGPS` with an optional `interval` in seconds:

```js
	sim7100.getGPS(10);		// read GPS every 10 seconds
```

The GPS object contains the following:

key | format | description
----|--------|------------
seq | integer | sequence number which increments on every read
lat | number | latitude in degrees
lon | number | longitude in degrees
alt | number | altitude in meters
speed | number | speed in knots
course | number | orientation in degrees
date.year | integer | year
date.month | integer | month
date.day | integer | day
time.hour | integer | hour
time.min | integer | minute
time.sec | float | seconds

#### `onGPSDisabled`

To disable GPS, set an optional `onGPSDisabled` function to be notified when it is complete:

```js
	sim7100.onGPSDisabled = function(device) {
		trace("GPS done.\n");
	}
	
	sim7100.disableGPS();
```


<a id="misc"></a>
## Misc

#### `reset`

Call `reset` to reset the SIM7100 module:

```js
	sim7100.reset();
```

#### `ledBrightness(value)`
To change the brightness of the LEDs, call `ledBrightness` with a value between 0 (off) and 8 (bright):

```js
	sim7100.ledBrightness(1);
```

<a id="examples"></a>
## Examples


### sim7100
[sim7100](examples/sim7100) demonstrates using multiple functionality of the SIM7100. It takes a GPS reading and posts a message to SMS.

### sim7100sms
[sim7100sms](examples/sim7100sms) sends an SMS message.

### sim7100gps
[sim7100gps](examples/sim7100gps) shows asynchronous GPS message reception.

### gpsmap
[gpsmap](examples/gpsmap) uses the SIM7100 to fetch the current GPS latitude and longitude and presents a map-tile on the moddable_zero screen.