# LS013B4DN04 display driver
Copyright 2017 Moddable Tech, Inc.<BR>
Revised: December 28, 2017

The [LS013B4DN04](https://cdn-shop.adafruit.com/datasheets/LS013B4DN04-3V_FPC-204284.pdf) Sharp memory display controller drives 1-bit per pixel (black and white) displays. Displays are up to 400 pixels wide and 240 pixels high.

### Adding LS013B4DN04 to a project
To add the LS013B4DN04 driver to a project, include its manifest:

	"include": [
		/* other includes here */
		"$(MODULES)/drivers/ls013b4dn04/manifest.json",
	],

If using Commodetto or Piu, set the `screen` property of the `config` object in the manifest to `ls013b4dn04` to make LS013B4DN04 the default display driver. Since there is no touch input, set the touch driver name to an empty string to disable it.

	"config": {
		"screen": "ls013b4dn04",
		"touch": "",
	},

### Pixel format
The LS013B4DN04 driver requires 8-bit gray pixels as input. When building with `mcconfig`, set the pixel format to `gray256` on the command line:

	mcconfig -m -p esp -f gray256

### Defines
In the `defines` object, declare the pixel `width` and `height`.

	"defines": {
		"ls013b4dn04": {
			"width": 400,
			"height": 240,
		}
	}

### Configuring SPI
The `defines` object must contain the `spi_port`, along with the `CS` pin number. If the `cs_port` property is not provided, it defaults to NULL. 

	"defines": {
		"ls013b4dn04": {
			/* other properties here */	
			"cs_pin": 4,
			"spi_port": "#HSPI",
		}
	}

The `hz` property, when present, specifies the SPI bus speed. The default value is 10,000,000 Hz which is near the maximum SPI speed supported by the LS013B4DN04.

### Drawing
The LS013B4DN04 driver always updates full scan lines, but can update arbitrary scan lines. This allows for partial updates of full rows. Piu automatically takes care of this, so script using Piu do not need to take this into account. Scripts using Poco need to ensure  when calling `poco.begin()` that the `x` parameter is zero and the `width` parameter is equal to `poco.width`.
